All of the hardware,
infrastructure,
and everything beyond and
in-between is there to
support the programs that
people run on their mainframes.
Most companies have
applications they have
developed to meet their
own unique business needs.
The mainframes supports a number
of languages including
those you may
think of as mainframe
specific like
Cobol, Fortran, and PL/1,
to more industry-standard
languages like Assembler,
C, C++, and Java,
and right on up to some of
the newer hotter languages like
Python, Swift, and NodeJS.
Each programming language has
its own set of
strengths, and ideally,
you don't just choose
a programming language
because it's the one
you know or it's the one
that platform supports.
For that reason, it's
important that z/OS be able to
support whatever someone
wants to use for their work.
Let's do a quick quiz
before moving on.
Select all of
the programming languages
that you think run
on the mainframe.
The correct answer is all of
the languages listed
except Chrome ML,
z/OS does not yet provide
support for Chrome ML
probably because it's
something we just made
up like five minutes before
recording this video.
But pretty much anything
else that you'd
expect to have support
for, it's in there.
No matter what language you use,
it needs to get turned into
machine language so
the computer can understand it.
This is done either through
compiling or interpreting.
In a compiled language,
which we've talked about
a little bit before,
a compiler is run on the source
code and the output is
executable code that can run
pretty much by itself
on the target platform.
An interpreted language
uses an interpreter to
figure out what needs to be done
for the program at runtime,
and interfaces with the
operating system on its behalf.
On z/OS, there is this concept
of a language environment,
and the reason we have it
is to provide
a common environment
for all participating
high-level languages or HLLs.
So before language environment,
which everyone just calls LE,
every language has its own area
and its own slightly unique way
of doing things.
Not only was this
tricky to keep track of
it also meant that if you were
supporting four languages,
you are supporting
four different environments,
and that's just not fun.
So LE lets us combine all
of that into one area,
which has a uniform way
of managing storage,
reading and writing data,
and performing
mathematical calculations.
As a result, it
reduces the need for
compilers to generate
unique code,
it shields the languages
from having to have
deep knowledge of the
operating system and hardware,
and it cuts down on the need to
recompile and relink
code for fixes.
Now, not all languages
on z/OS use the
language environment,
and not all languages that use
the language environment are
said to be LE compliant.
It's just the way things
have evolved over time.
But when you do run something
that deals with LE,
now you know a little
more about the why,
the what, and the how.